Tutorial: How to run a fake door test (#6474)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/tutorials/fake-door-test.md

---
title: How to run a fake door test
date: 2023-08-09
author: ["ian-vanagas"]
showTitle: true
sidebar: Docs
featuredImage: ../images/tutorials/banners/tutorial-15.png
tags: ['surveys', 'actions']
---

> A fake door test is creating a real UI for a non-existent product or feature to gauge interested in it. Doing one can help you validate what you plan on building. In this tutorial, we build an app, set up a fake door test, then implement surveys to get more feedback.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A fake door test is when you make a "fake" UI for a product or feature you're thinking about. When users click or interact with it, you tell them it's not available yet. You then see how many people showed interest. This helps you decide if it's a good idea to make the real thing.

In this tutorial, we build an app, set up a fake door test, and then implement surveys to receive feedback from our users.
```

Author: Rewrote this.

```

After doing this, go into your newly created `fake-door` folder and install `posthog-js`.

```bash
cd fake-door
npm i posthog-js
```

After installing `posthog-js`, set up the PostHog initialization. This requires going to our `app` folder, creating a `providers.js` file, adding our PostHog initialization behind a window check with `opt_in_site_apps: true` (for later), and creating a provider component like this:

```js-web
// app/providers.js
'use client'
import posthog from 'posthog-js'
import { PostHogProvider } from 'posthog-js/react'

if (typeof window !== 'undefined') {
  posthog.init('<ph_project_api_key>', {
    api_host: '<ph_instance_address>',
    opt_in_site_apps: true
  })
}

export function PHProvider({ children }) {
  return <PostHogProvider client={posthog}>{children}</PostHogProvider>
}
```

With our `PHProvider` component created, we can import it and wrap our main app in it in `layout.js`.

```js-web
// app/layout.js
import './globals.css'
import { PHProvider } from './providers'

export default function RootLayout({ children }) {
  return (
    <html lang="en">
      <PHProvider>
        <body>{children}</body>
      </PHProvider>
    </html>
  )
}
```

> With this done, PostHog starts autocapturing events and our app is ready for a fake door test.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With this done, PostHog starts [autocapturing](hyperlink to autocapture) events and our app is ready for a fake door test.
```

## Creating our fake door test

> Creating a fake door test is intentionally simple. There are many ways to do it, but we start with a basic one. Add a button to our app that says "Try our new feature."

Reviewer: In our example, we'll create a "fake" sign in button. When clicked, instead of signing you in, we'll show a message that reads "Thanks for your interest! This feature is coming soon".

```js-web
// app/page.js

export default function Home() {
  return (
    <div>
      <h1>Welcome to our app!</h1>
      <button>Sign in</button>
      <span> - </span>
      <button>Try our new feature</button>
    </div>
  )
}
```

Once this is set up, we can run `npm run dev` to run the development server, go to our app, and click the button a few times. This captures events in PostHog.

> Once we capture that data in PostHog, we can set up an action for our fake door test. To do this: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once we capture that data in PostHog, we can set up an [action](hyperlink to action docs) for our fake door test. To do this: 
```

1. Go to the data management, click the action tab, and then click "[New action](https://app.posthog.com/data-management/actions/new)." 

> 2. Either use the toolbar to select your element or select from an event (which we choose).

Reviewer: I would remove the bit on the toolbar here (unnecessary introducing new concept). Also, can you clarify how to select the event to create an action from?
```suggestion
2. Select from an event (which we choose).
```

3. Name your action "shown new feature interest." 
4. Select "Autocapture" as our "Match Group #1," and then match the element text "Try our new feature" exactly. 
5. Press save.

![Action](../images/tutorials/fake-door-test/action.png)

> With this, you can keep track of validation on your fake door test and even send [webhook notifications](/docs/webhooks) when someone clicks the button. 

Reviewer: I dont think I'd include the bit on webhook notifications. Up to you

```suggestion
This measures the number of clicks on button, enabling you to track interest on your feature.

You can even send [webhook notifications](/docs/webhooks) when someone clicks the button. 
```

## Adding a survey to our fake door test

> Since the goal of a fake door test is to validate interest, we can improve this a lot. Specifically, we can take users to another page and ask them a survey question.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since the goal of a fake door test is to validate interest, we can get even more feedback by adding a survey.

We'll implement this in our example by navigating the user to a new page when they click the button and asking them a survey question.
```

> In our `app` folder, we can create another folder named `new` and create a file named `page.js` within it. In this file, we can create a basic page that says coming soon. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To do this, first create another folder named `new` in our `app` folder. Then create a file named `page.js`. In this file, we'll create a basic page with our survey question. 
```

---
title: How to run a fake door test
date: 2023-08-09
author: ["ian-vanagas"]
showTitle: true
sidebar: Docs
featuredImage: ../images/tutorials/banners/tutorial-15.png
tags: ['surveys', 'actions']
---

> A fake door test is when you create a "fake" UI or experience for a product or feature you are thinking of building. When users interact with it, you tell them it isn't available (yet). This show of interest helps you validate what you plan on building.

Reviewer: "show of interest" reads a bit weird

```suggestion
A fake door test is when you create a "fake" UI or experience for a product or feature you are thinking of building. When users interact with it, you tell them it isn't available (yet). This enables you determine if your users would actually be interested in your new feature.
```

> This tutorial shows you how to set up a fake door test with PostHog. We build a basic app, set up a fake door test, and then implement surveys to get more feedback.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This tutorial shows you how to set up a fake door test with PostHog. We'll build a basic app, set up a fake door test, and then implement surveys to get more feedback.
```

> > **Warning:** Fake door tests come with risks. Showing users something that doesn't exist yet could disappoint them and hurt your reputation. Make sure to be honest and transparent with users about what you are doing.

Reviewer: I like that we've added the warning, but it comes across as very negative and makes me not want to do a fake door test. Any way we can soften the message?

Author: Updated to 

> **Note:** Fake door tests have risks. Showing users something non-existent could disappoint them and hurt your reputation. Make sure to be honest and transparent with users about what you are doing.

## Creating an app and adding PostHog

> We are going to build a basic app to run our fake door test on. We do this with Next.js, which requires installing Node. After doing so, run the command below, select **No** for TypeScript, **Yes** for `use app router`, and the defaults for every other option.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We are going to build a basic app to run our fake door test on. We do this with Next.js, which requires installing Node. After doing so, run the command below, select **No for TypeScript**, **Yes for `use app router`**, and the defaults for every other option.
```

```js-web
// app/providers.js
'use client'
import posthog from 'posthog-js'
import { PostHogProvider } from 'posthog-js/react'

if (typeof window !== 'undefined') {
  posthog.init('<ph_project_api_key>', {
    api_host: '<ph_instance_address>',
    opt_in_site_apps: true
  })
}

export function PHProvider({ children }) {
  return <PostHogProvider client={posthog}>{children}</PostHogProvider>
}
```

With our `PHProvider` component created, we can import it and wrap our main app in it in `layout.js`.

```js-web
// app/layout.js
import './globals.css'
import { PHProvider } from './providers'

export default function RootLayout({ children }) {
  return (
    <html lang="en">
      <PHProvider>
        <body>{children}</body>
      </PHProvider>
    </html>
  )
}
```

With this done, PostHog starts [autocapturing](/docs/product-analytics/autocapture) events and our app is ready for a fake door test.

## Creating our fake door test

> Our fake door test is simple. We add a button to our app that says "Try our new feature" and it takes you to a page that says "This feature is coming soon" which we will create later.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our fake door test is simple. We'll add a button to our app that says "Try our new feature" and it takes you to a page that says "This feature is coming soon" which we will create later.
```

```js-web
// app/page.js
import Link from 'next/link'

export default function Home() {
  return (
    <div>
      <h1>Welcome to our app!</h1>
      <button>Sign in</button>
      <span> - </span>
      <Link href="/new">
        <button>Try our the new feature</button>
      </Link>
    </div>
  )
}
```

With just this set up, we can run the development server with the command `npm run dev`, go to our app, and click the button a few times. This captures events in PostHog.

Once we capture that data in PostHog, we can set up an [action](/docs/data/actions) for our fake door test. To do this: 

1. Go to the data management, click the action tab, and then click "[New action](https://app.posthog.com/data-management/actions/new)." 
2. Select option to create "From event or pageview."
3. Name your action "shown new feature interest." 
4. Select "Autocapture" as our "Match Group #1," and then match the element text "Try our new feature" exactly. 
5. Press save.

![Action](../images/tutorials/fake-door-test/action.png)

This tracks the number of button clicks, enabling you to track the success of your fake door test and interest in your feature.

> > **Bonus idea:** You can use [feature flags](/docs/feature-flags/manual) to show your fake door test to a targeted subset of users. This lowers reputation risk and enables you to get more targeted feedback.

Reviewer: love this
